The public opinions of the high school students was that AMM was just an agriculture college and they had some engineering, but it wasn't really the place that the leading high school students wanted to go.
They always had the portfolio of Vice President of Public Relations.
And this chapter solved, we were all really upset.
So, the Association, on a big act of faith, commissioned a study to be done by a public relation.
I said, I can't do the name right now.
I thought it didn't take a lot of it to get it.
But was involved in that.
But our board was the study to determine the A&M's perception by the public.
This was done before it came in and it was negative.
It was very negative.
I remember that I was one of the two people that had to take that to the board for reasons.
I remember Mr. Peterson, maybe he was president of the board at that time, but he had, I'll just mention him because he was in the middle of it.
I think he said something, there's no way you can make me believe all this.
Yes.
The report, actually the report was right on when it was completely accurate in the way the people felt about aliens.
And the association undertook to do whatever it could to get away from that.
I'll give you a little example.
My son, Ken, was one of the followers on one of the basketball teams that was a power in Texas, high school basketball.
They were playing in the regionals.
There were a lot of leading dealers there, and they played that morning, and they were going to play in the finals, I think, that evening.
And they said, Mr. Apfel, we know that you like A&M and all.
Show us something there.
It was Saturday.
That place was a bar.
The only thing I could find of interest to show them was a Mexican gun collection.
In the MFC.
Yeah.
At that time, I vowed that somehow, someway, on that campus, we wanted a place where people could go and find out what ain't ever found.
And that was the thing that shocked me into wanting to see that we had a visitor center.
Right.
So you're saying that's where the Appell Visitor Center idea was born?
Absolutely.
And that would have been about what year?
That had been in...
Probably the late 60s.
It just took a long time to get around to that.
I think we got it going.
You know, we finally got it.
With the rudder tower and the rudder tower there, that was a key thing.
Alright, with that center, when the rudder tower is being planned,
Did you step forward and say, I want to do the center, or did somebody come to you to ask for it?
We had an association lobby for getting that space in the center.
And it was a close call.
Fort Albrecht was on board at that time.
And Ford had the flu.
And I remember Buck Wires called Ford.
He said, Ford, if you don't get over there and support this, we're not going to be able to get this.
information center and that's what we call it in the run of town.
Because a lot of the board members are lukewarm, they don't understand what we're doing and that's a prime space and they just don't know where this is worth it.
And Ford got up out there and went to where we prevailed and they gave us the space.
And then we raised money from various friends of A&M, including the West Foundation and others that I had connections to.
And we were able to get the appointed committee, which Bob Ladd moved on.
I think you need to find out what that committee was there, because they were a whole bunch of really dedicated people that worked on all that.
One of my favorite recollections was a few years after the Appelt Center opened, there was one little bit was interviewing, and I think it was a student from Indonesia,
And he said, the Aggie spirit, it is a good thing, I think.
And you could tell that he wasn't convinced completely about all of it.
But see, it worked.
We started out in time with the full map.
And we had now, we had the little cassettes and all that.
But it gave a lot of information.
And it was used.
It was used heavily.
Every day when I go through there, I see people in there.
But then in the early 90s is when we decided to really do it professionally.
And actually it's one of the things I believe about.
But it started back then.
After this report,
association in this high school relations.
We started bringing people from the campus to the high schools.
And in this way, I don't really understand how perception kept changing.
But we're now, perception is that AMM is a place to go to.
And that's a dramatic
Thirty year change.
Oh yes.
1968 to 98.
Believe me, I can't think of anything that's more changed.
Anybody tells you a naked joke is tongue in cheek now.
At 68 they believed it.
Very true.
Had you heard of Dr. Williams before his appointment as president was announced?
No.
Do you remember your first impressions of him?
I think he was, see he came on board I think the year that I was on the field.
I used to have a hand and then duck him and I had to make a little talk and all, but I became a fan of Dr. Williams on the committee.
his personality and his vision for the one who's A&M appealed to him.
As you were working for A&M's Progress, who were your key allies?
Oh, there were so many.
But who were, name some of them.
I'd say everybody that was on the association boards for all the few years.
Everyone that was on the foundation.
the board after we got rid of the last 10 year deals was audit.
I recall we had a meeting, the first meeting after I'd been elected chair foundation.
We had seven trustees and they were, maybe it was five trustees.
that were served in 10 year terms.
And three of them showed up.
And some of them still tell you that I got on the phone and told them, okay, this is serious business.
If you don't think enough of this job and what we need to do here, and can't make the meetings through the University of Africa and stuff.
And after that I had another absence.
Oh good, good.
Where was the foundation located physically?
Where were its offices?
Various places, the University gave a space.
In the MSC, near the association on the west side of the MSC?
I think that's one of the places.
Then it was in the library building for a while.
It took a while before you got a permanent location.
In working with Dr. Williams, do you remember any other significant campaigns?
I was mostly concerned in that period of foundational activities.
really spent all my interests as far as ADM on the World of the Foundation Architects.
And Dr. William was always very cooperative.
And Bob Walker, as vice president there, was really appropriate.
He worked very closely with the Foundation.
And had he been trying to build his own empire, so to speak,
and all, a lot of the donations that came to the foundation would very well have been going over to the university.
So, and all during this period, we had a very touchable relationship with the regents.
working with the regents, show them what we thought the foundation was going to be.
They could see the money rolling in.
And you always had that little situation there.
Gosh, all this money's coming in here.
And some of the regents said, but we don't control it.
And there was a period in there where it was kind of dicey.
The regents at one time even established
a separate foundation, but it was supported by the association of law students.
The biggest thing we had with that foundation, it was a child of the association.
The directors, all the trustees were supported by the association, and there was tight working there.
We had lots of negotiations saying, now what is the function of the association, that's against the foundation.
Well, we decided that the association would be more than looking at the angel gifts.
The foundation would be more looking at the one-time lifetime type gifts, requests, wills.
That type of thing.
And it's working like that to this day.
It's just the association is possible, the foundation is possible, and between them, they're strong.
We've got a tremendously strong former students association, and we now have developed a very, very good foundation, good leadership, dedicated trustees,
I don't know just when, but the foundation will have a billion dollars in it in the next few years.
Probably not over five years, I don't know.
I think you're right.
And I see that the working relationship between the foundation and the university... Boy, the regents, it's good now.
It's good.
It's very good.
Between Eddie Joe and Walker is good.
There's no jealousy.
There's no territorial argument.
And you gotta give Bob Walker a lot of credit for that.
Oh yes, oh yes.
And the morale of the foundation staff from the lowest to the highest is really good.
Well, you know, that is demonstrated by the fact that the foundation staff made substantial contribution.
Yes.
Into the next drive.
I'm not gonna ask the negative now,
who were the regents during your period, who were the regents that you think deserve the most positive credit?
As far as support of the foundation, that's where I was working.
Okay.
Well, I thought that they invested in
You know, we're doing this period there.
We've got the private... Enterprise.
Enterprise research.
And in that room, for instance, Joe Reynolds was exploring that.
We had a lot of people that perceived the light, seeing what the possibilities were.
I guess the only thing there was some lack of enthusiasm,
part of some of the administration people, when they saw the Foundation of Mass and all this money, that they felt maybe I'd be right about every other, it'd be the worst of them.
But they didn't realize that a lot of these donors did not have given it to the university.
The fact that they could give it to any member of the Foundation really appealed to them.
and they felt it would be better administrative and the best and better.
And I think time has shown it, that's true.
When you were working closely with Dr. Williams, did you work with John Calhoun, John Coldus, any of those people?
Yeah, sure, all of those.
It was all very positive people.
Calhoun was strength.
Coldus was absolutely one of a kind for his job.
He's just about as good as I've ever been around in that student affairs job.
Really, see a lot of that had so much to do with the, so we might say the new perception of AMF, people with that kind of strength.
Now from Hervey to Wyrus, what kind of transition was that in the leadership of the foundation?
Was that a smooth transition?
Well, that went very easy.
That went very easy.
And then from- See, Herbie, Herbie, Herbie inherited the portfolio from, I think, there.
Buck came at a time when, I guess, the Foundation, I mean, the Economic Association, the director started doing life, you know.
And it was a result of,
A lot of this study of the attitudes toward it again, perceptions, you know.
And when we saw I made it to anywhere, there's some galvanized association board.
We'd have to do something.
We'd have to change things.
We didn't know what to do.
And actually different things were done and so happened.
I don't know what finally caused the change in perception, but it did happen.
What was the attitude of the typical A&M former student about racial integration at A&M?
I didn't see any good opposition to that.
I certainly had none.
I really didn't see any opposition to that.
Do you remember any action proposed by the association to oppose it?
I don't.
Nothing, certainly nothing of record.
It might have been some individuals in the association that didn't like it, but the association, I feel that you got sales come out on affirmatively.
Push forward.
Were you by chance present at the association board meeting when Mr. Rudder came and asked them to endorse co-education and non-compulsory core?
John Lindsay was the president.
He's the president.
Because Jack Creighton had moved up.
Yeah.
I was not on the board then.
That's the point I was on the board.
I was following up there.
John can give you some very interesting real on that.
He had to run that through, and so to speak, he had to run it through the month.
John can give you some really interesting real on that.
Alright, during your period of leadership with the association and the foundation, what statewide political figures
do you recall that deserve a pat on the back?
Were there governors and senators and members of the house that were helpful to A&M?
Of course, all the members from around this county, particularly the then senator, were very, very helpful.
What senator?
I can't think of his name.
Bill Moore?
Bill Moore.
Bill Moore had a lot of lots of
lots of heft in the legislature.
And he was strong.
And all the representatives of that area, there were a lot of them out of Houston and San Antonio and all.
NM had good pull in the legislature.
I think a lot of that is attributable to the fact that we had the Extension Service.
I don't think a lot of people realize how effective that was.
Because we were everywhere.
And we were able to get to Mexico's.
Extension services, some of the things we were doing were invulgate, change the image.
A lot of that was invulgated through this network extension.
That's something we have as an advantage.
as it relates to immunity.
It puts us in every way.
We're the only one that has a local person operating in every county.
And in some cases, both a man and a woman.
So that was something that was quite effective as we started
putting out the materials and trying to change the perception and all, that was a great help.
Do you remember when you heard that Dr. Williams had had a heart attack?
I sure did.
Describe that please, how you heard and- Well, it was an office in Houston when they told me I was devastated.
Did someone call you?
Yes.
I didn't recall who it was or something like that.
Did they give him, as you understood it, was he going to survive?
As far as I recall, it was a very touching building there for a moment.
And that was a very awkward period.
I won't put anything, but I think the regents could have handled that situation now.
without knowing who I'm talking about really.
But I don't even recall the reason why it was not hammered very well enough.
As far as you know, were there any regents that had become opposed to Dr. Williams?
I didn't perceive that.
At least they didn't take an open.
posture of an opposition.
As far as you know, why did they recreate the system bureaucracy and recreate the office of chancellor?
Because Mr. Rudder and Dr. Williams had been both.
Well, of course Earl was such a dominant person out there that it was obvious that he was going to be
When Williams came, that had been done for so many years that it was, they just didn't, see.
Then after we, then they started having a little bit of international warfare, if you please.
And they ended up with the chancellor, president, assistant.
And it probably was the best way to do it.
8th was flagship because they needed to go to the system and the system was not going to function that well without 8th leadership.
And that's going to continue to be a little area depending on the personalities of the people who are in those offices.
Which governors, in your experience,
have been the most supportive of higher education and of A&M?
I think Bill Pemmiss was a good supporter of higher education.
What about John Conley?
John Conley was.
I don't recall if there had any government come out and say anything negative about A&M, but that's too bad a politics.
Do you remember any examples of UT-A&M cooperation at the statewide level?
I've attended many sessions, three or four at least, every time I was in Asia.
And we'll go to Austin, we'll go to Texas, and we'll go through this, and say, okay, we're going to have a different puff here, we're going to do that.
That's been going on, and we've got to continue to go on.
If we're going to be successful,
and protect them.
I remember one time being in Dr. Williams' office, and he got a call from Peter Flan, or Mickey LeMater, one or the other, and they needed the votes of two Houston legislators, and Dr. Williams asked me to call John Lindsay and see if he knew either one of those two.
Well, he knew them both and served on committees with both, and
Those two folks then voted the way we wanted them to, and that swung the vote in the legislature.
We all were busy working on people that were here in our local areas, talking about that business.
That was conducted very well and it still works.
Looking back on these 30 years and more now of activity, what were your proudest moments
as a former student leader?
There was a lot of, I don't know that I can't.
I was just, I was absolutely proud of the Cleveland Foundation.
Exceeded the gold, over a hundred million dollars.
set a pattern that's going to be very difficult for the body to meet.
I've always had the idea that President Burdolph University signed that everybody is going to go out to California.
They have to lead a drive to exceed that.
They will, and they will exceed.
But they've stumbled now for three years trying to get going.
I think that's one of the critical things that happened when everybody got there.
It took a while to explain the thing that got solidly behind that drive.
And it's one of the things, I think, that had the most cooperation with anything I've seen back in the 80s in this last drive when I kept performing.
What I like about something like that, it goes on.
The level of contributions from the two years before the capital fund in the annual to the two years now after the capital fund, compare those.
But the difference is largely because of the activity and the contacts that were made during the capital fund drive.
I believe this last year was the Foundation's best year yet.
Well, that's, in my opinion, is a trading-age benefit of doing that and, of course, staffing up, getting more in front of people, having more people out there to look at.
That's one thing you have.
You have more and more people to work with.
Every year that goes by, there's a new group of affluent agents upon.
then the people who moved up in their career and finally they get in the top levels.
Well, the numbers that are doing that now are so much greater than they were back in the 60s.
Just a few top level people.
We had people in the president of the Gulf and the president.
But now it's spread all around the great positions of authority and prestige all across the country.
And they get to do more and more and more.
See, people in the 60s now are the guys that are coming into leadership.
And it amazes me.
I read the papers, look at the contributions to the foundation.
Who the hell is this guy?
See?
And I go back and look.
And he has an illustrious business career.
As we look at the student body today,
It's almost 50% female.
It must be 80% non-core.
Do you see any change in the spirit, in the enthusiasm, in the pride?
That's one of the things you asked me that I got the biggest kick out with that.
because I kept saying, I kept thinking about the speech made in Houston and said, I think it would be a good thing.
But I had some, some of those reservations as to whether the girls would make good eggs.
But I don't have any reservations about that anymore.
The fact is, to use the expression, some of those girls would kill the bunch of girls.
The guys, as far as being good eggs.
So, and
Saturday on that party.